Count the Triangles
1. Problem
Original image: Count how many triangles are in the figure.
Problem: Several lines are drawn from the top vertex to the base, and two horizontal lines are parallel to the base. Find the total number of triangles.
2. Method 1: Choose Two Slanted Lines and One Base Line
All countable triangles share the same top vertex.
There are 6 lines from the top vertex to the base. Choosing any 2 of them gives the two sides of a triangle.
For each pair of slanted lines, the base can be the upper horizontal line, the lower horizontal line, or the bottom base. So each pair forms 3 triangles.
There are 45 triangles
3. Method 2: Count Layer by Layer
Look at one horizontal line as the base. The 6 lines from the top vertex divide it into 5 small intervals.
On this one layer, a triangle may span 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 intervals:
There are 3 possible horizontal base lines: the upper horizontal line, the lower horizontal line, and the bottom base.
There are 45 triangles
4. Final Answer
Final answer: 45 triangles